README.md, before:

# Scamandrios

A promises API for Cassandra, forked from [helenus](https://github.com/simplereach/helenus). Helenus was Cassandra's twin brother. He was also known as Scamandrios.

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/ceejbot/scamandrios.png)](http://travis-ci.org/ceejbot/scamandrios)

[Code coverage report](test/coverage.html)

To install:

`npm install scamandrios`

There is a set of unit tests run by mocha. The tests require cassandra to be running on `localhost:9160`.

`make test && make test-cov`

## Usage

### CQL

Connection pools are interchangeable with connection objects. You can make all Cassandra API calls against pools or single connections the same way. To create a pool:

```javascript
var scamandrios = require('scamandrios');

var pool = new scamandrios.ConnectionPool(
{
        hosts      : ['localhost:9160'],
        keyspace   : 'scamandrios_test',
        user       : 'test',
        password   : 'test1233',
        timeout    : 3000
        cqlVersion : '3.0.0', // optional
        getHost    : getHostFunc, // optional
});
```

Specify the `cqlVersion` parameter if you are using Cassandra 1.1 and want to use CQL 3.

You can supply a function in the `getHost` parameter to override the random host selection that the pool will perform when handling a request. __NOTE:__ We intend to replace the pool implementation with one based on [poolee](https://github.com/dannycoates/poolee), so overriding will eventually be impossible as well as something you probably won't ever feel the need to do.

As with most error-emitting objects in node, if you do not listen for `error` it will bubble up to `process.uncaughtException`.

```javascript
pool.on('error', function(err)
{
    console.error(err.name, err.message);
});
```

All asynchronous operations return promises in lieu of taking callbacks. The promises library used is [P](https://github.com/rkatic/p), which is Promises/A+ spec compliant. Here's an example of making a CQL query:

```javascript
pool.connect.then(function()
{
    pool.cql('SELECT col FROM cf_one WHERE key = ?', ['key123']).then(function(result)
    {
        console.log(result);
    });
})
```

The first argument to `cql()` is the query string. The second is an array of items to interpolate into the query string, which is accomplished using [util.format()](http://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/util.html#util.format). The result is an array of Row objects. You can always skip quotes around placeholders. Quotes are added automatically. In CQL3 you cannot use placeholders for ColumnFamily or Column names.

### Thrift

If you do not want to use CQL, you can make calls using the thrift driver

```javascript
pool.connect.then(function(keyspace)
{
    keyspace.get('my_cf').then(function(cf)
    {
        cf.insert('foo', { bar: 'baz'}).then(function()
        {
            cf.get('foo', { consistency: scamandrios.ConsistencyLevel.ONE }).then(function(row)
            {
                console.log(row.get('bar').value);
            }, function(err)
            {
                // handle any errors for the entire chain
            });
        });
    });
});
```

### Thrift Support

Currently scamandrios supports the following command for the thrift side of the driver:

* `connection.createKeyspace()`
* `connection.dropKeyspace()`
* `keyspace.createColumnFamily()`
* `keyspace.dropColumnFamily()`
* `columnFamily.insert()`
* `columnFamily.get()`
* `columnFamily.getIndexed()`
* `columnFamily.remove()`
* `columnFamily.truncate()`
* `columnfamily.incr()`

The following support is going to be added in later releases:

* `columnFamily.rowCount()`
* `columnFamily.columnCount()`
* SuperColumns
* CounterColumns
* Better composite support

## Row

The scamandrios Row object acts like an array but contains some helper methods to
make your life a bit easier when dealing with dynamic columns in Cassandra.

### row.count

Returns the number of columns in the row

### row[N]

Returns the column at index *N*.

```javascript
results.forEach(function(row)
{
    // gets the 5th column of each row
    console.log(row[5]);
});
```

### row.get(name)

Returns the column with that specific name.

```javascript
results.forEach(function(row)
{
    //gets the column with the name 'foo' of each row
    console.log(row.get('foo'));
});
```

### row.forEach()

This is a wrapper function for `Array.forEach()` that returns name, value, ts, ttl of each column in the row as callback params.

```javascript
// for every row in a result
results.forEach(function(row)
{
    // for every column in the row
    row.forEach(function(name, value, ts, ttl)
    {
        console.log(name, value, ts, ttl);
    });
});
```

### row.slice(start, finish)

Slices columns in the row based on their numeric index, this allows you to get
columns x through y, it returns a scamandrios row object of columns that match the slice.

        results.forEach(function(row){
            //gets the first 5 columns of each row
            console.log(row.slice(0,5));
        });

### row.nameSlice(start, finish)

Slices the columns based on part of their column name. returns a scamandrios row of columns
that match the slice

```javascript
results.forEach(function(row)
{
        // gets all columns that start with a, b, c, or d
        console.log(row.nameSlice('a','e'));
});
```

## Column

Columns are returned as objects with the following structure:

```javascript
{
    name:      'Foo',    // the column name
    value:     'bar',    // the column value
    timestamp: Date(),   // a date object containing the timestamp for the column
    ttl:       123456    // the ttl (in milliseconds) for the columns
}
```

## ConsistencyLevel

scamandrios supports using a custom consistency level. By default, when using the thrift client reads and writes will both use `QUORUM`. When using the thrift driver, you simply pass a custom level in the options:

```javascript
cf.insert(key, values, {consistency : scamandrios.ConsistencyLevel.ANY});
```


## Contributors

* Russell Bradberry - @devdazed
* Matthias Eder - @matthiase
* Christoph Tavan - @ctavan
* C J Silverio - @ceejbot
* Kit Cambridge - @kitcambridge

## License

MIT; see provided license file for copyright information.

Commit message:

Re-point the TravisCI build status badge to the BPS version of the repo. Also, add a dependencies status badge for maximal user confidence in the awesomeness of this software experience.

README.md, after:

# Scamandrios

A promises API for Cassandra, forked from [helenus](https://github.com/simplereach/helenus). Helenus was Cassandra's twin brother. He was also known as Scamandrios.

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/blackpearlsystems/scamandrios.png)](http://travis-ci.org/blackpearlsystems/scamandrios) [![Dependenciess](https://david-dm.org/blackpearlsystems/scamandrios.png)](https://david-dm.org/blackpearlsystems/scamandrios)

To install:

`npm install scamandrios`

(Not yet published on NPM! Will have a badge here when it is.)

There is a set of unit tests run by mocha. The tests require cassandra to be running on `localhost:9160`.

`make test && make test-cov`

## Usage

### CQL

Connection pools are interchangeable with connection objects. You can make all Cassandra API calls against pools or single connections the same way. To create a pool:

```javascript
var scamandrios = require('scamandrios');

var pool = new scamandrios.ConnectionPool(
{
        hosts      : ['localhost:9160'],
        keyspace   : 'scamandrios_test',
        user       : 'test',
        password   : 'test1233',
        timeout    : 3000
        cqlVersion : '3.0.0', // optional
        getHost    : getHostFunc, // optional
});
```

Specify the `cqlVersion` parameter if you are using Cassandra 1.1 and want to use CQL 3.

You can supply a function in the `getHost` parameter to override the random host selection that the pool will perform when handling a request. __NOTE:__ We intend to replace the pool implementation with one based on [poolee](https://github.com/dannycoates/poolee), so overriding will eventually be impossible as well as something you probably won't ever feel the need to do.

As with most error-emitting objects in node, if you do not listen for `error` it will bubble up to `process.uncaughtException`.

```javascript
pool.on('error', function(err)
{
    console.error(err.name, err.message);
});
```

All asynchronous operations return promises in lieu of taking callbacks. The promises library used is [P](https://github.com/rkatic/p), which is Promises/A+ spec compliant. Here's an example of making a CQL query:

```javascript
pool.connect.then(function()
{
    pool.cql('SELECT col FROM cf_one WHERE key = ?', ['key123']).then(function(result)
    {
        console.log(result);
    });
})
```

The first argument to `cql()` is the query string. The second is an array of items to interpolate into the query string, which is accomplished using [util.format()](http://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/util.html#util.format). The result is an array of Row objects. You can always skip quotes around placeholders. Quotes are added automatically. In CQL3 you cannot use placeholders for ColumnFamily or Column names.

### Thrift

If you do not want to use CQL, you can make calls using the thrift driver

```javascript
pool.connect.then(function(keyspace)
{
    keyspace.get('my_cf').then(function(cf)
    {
        cf.insert('foo', { bar: 'baz'}).then(function()
        {
            cf.get('foo', { consistency: scamandrios.ConsistencyLevel.ONE }).then(function(row)
            {
                console.log(row.get('bar').value);
            }, function(err)
            {
                // handle any errors for the entire chain
            });
        });
    });
});
```

### Thrift Support

Currently scamandrios supports the following command for the thrift side of the driver:

* `connection.createKeyspace()`
* `connection.dropKeyspace()`
* `keyspace.createColumnFamily()`
* `keyspace.dropColumnFamily()`
* `columnFamily.insert()`
* `columnFamily.get()`
* `columnFamily.getIndexed()`
* `columnFamily.remove()`
* `columnFamily.truncate()`
* `columnfamily.incr()`

The following support is going to be added in later releases:

* `columnFamily.rowCount()`
* `columnFamily.columnCount()`
* SuperColumns
* CounterColumns
* Better composite support

## Row

The scamandrios Row object acts like an array but contains some helper methods to
make your life a bit easier when dealing with dynamic columns in Cassandra.

### row.count

Returns the number of columns in the row

### row[N]

Returns the column at index *N*.

```javascript
results.forEach(function(row)
{
    // gets the 5th column of each row
    console.log(row[5]);
});
```

### row.get(name)

Returns the column with that specific name.

```javascript
results.forEach(function(row)
{
    //gets the column with the name 'foo' of each row
    console.log(row.get('foo'));
});
```

### row.forEach()

This is a wrapper function for `Array.forEach()` that returns name, value, ts, ttl of each column in the row as callback params.

```javascript
// for every row in a result
results.forEach(function(row)
{
    // for every column in the row
    row.forEach(function(name, value, ts, ttl)
    {
        console.log(name, value, ts, ttl);
    });
});
```

### row.slice(start, finish)

Slices columns in the row based on their numeric index, this allows you to get
columns x through y, it returns a scamandrios row object of columns that match the slice.

        results.forEach(function(row){
            //gets the first 5 columns of each row
            console.log(row.slice(0,5));
        });

### row.nameSlice(start, finish)

Slices the columns based on part of their column name. returns a scamandrios row of columns
that match the slice

```javascript
results.forEach(function(row)
{
        // gets all columns that start with a, b, c, or d
        console.log(row.nameSlice('a','e'));
});
```

## Column

Columns are returned as objects with the following structure:

```javascript
{
    name:      'Foo',    // the column name
    value:     'bar',    // the column value
    timestamp: Date(),   // a date object containing the timestamp for the column
    ttl:       123456    // the ttl (in milliseconds) for the columns
}
```

## ConsistencyLevel

scamandrios supports using a custom consistency level. By default, when using the thrift client reads and writes will both use `QUORUM`. When using the thrift driver, you simply pass a custom level in the options:

```javascript
cf.insert(key, values, {consistency : scamandrios.ConsistencyLevel.ANY});
```


## Contributors

* Russell Bradberry - @devdazed
* Matthias Eder - @matthiase
* Christoph Tavan - @ctavan
* C J Silverio - @ceejbot
* Kit Cambridge - @kitcambridge

## License

MIT; see provided license file for copyright information.
